Why might you be bullied?
It may be your height
or lack of it
Your color
Your size
Where you're from?
How you talk?
Who your family is
Who your friends are
What you believe in it could be anything that has perceived is different
But no matter what it's not your fault
Bullying happens to kids all around the world every day
Though it can be physical
Pushing and shoving stealing or breaking things
It could also be verbal
teasing and name calling
Or even social
excluding people
starting rumors using the internet or texting
Being bullied is not funny. It's serious
Some effects are obvious from the outside
But there's a lot happening on the inside that we don't get to see like fear
stress and
sadness
Fear can make you afraid to go places
Sadness can make you stop acting like your true self
Maybe you don't want to do the things you enjoy doing anymore
Stress can affect your body
Your stomach might feel like it's in knots and maybe you can't sleep
You can do something about it
No, don't fight back
The Bible gives us great advice
Romans 12 17 tells us return evil for evil to no one
Here's what you could do
Be prepared
Think beforehand about what you want to say act confident
You could use humor to diffuse the situation
Think of ways you can protect yourself
Proverbs 223 says a shrewd person sees the calamity coming and conceals himself
Avoid places where bullying might happen and be willing to walk away if it does
Don't walk to school alone
Take a friend with you
Label your belongings
Don't take money or expensive things with you to school
Tell an adult
Shine a spotlight on their actions
You could talk to your parents
School officials or a trusted adult
Even though you might feel like a telltale
You shouldn't face it alone
It's not easy, but it can work you can beat a bully without using your fists